--- Hub ---

--- Craft ---
What we currently know of pottery techniques at the time suggests that the rattle was baked in a two-part mold.

The inside of the mold is first covered with clay, by hand. Using the spoon on your left, move some clay from the bucket on your right into this half of the mold. < wait >

The clay is spread by hand on the walls of the mold. Repeat the operation for the other half. < wait >

Once both halves are covered, the clay marble is pierced with a wooden needle.

The assembly is then placed inside a slit on one of the halves of the mold. Place it on the half you want. < wait >

The two-part mold is then closed, needle still sticking out, and cooked. Select the mold to send it off to the furnace. < wait >

It is important that the ball remain isolated from the clay covering the walls of the mold, so that both harden separately. This is why a needle is driven through the ball. < wait >

Once the clay has hardened, both halves of the mold are removed. Select the halves and slide them away from the rattle. < wait >

The rattle is silent for now : the needle you placed still holds the ball. Remove it. < wait >

Shake the rattle. It now emits a distinctive sound.

--- Map ---

We are missing a ton of information about the path the rattle took to the Musée des Beaux Arts of Rennes.

We can determine that it was manufactured around 300BC in what is nowadays Greece. < wait >

We can suppose that it was extracted from illegal excavations, and exported to Italy, where the Louvre Museum bought it from a private collector in the 19th century. < wait>

Other theories are possible, but in any case : we do not know the exact location of its discovery.

Without that context, interpreting things around the rattle is much more complex.

And yet, how can we know that our object is a rattle in the first place ? 

When archeologists are faced with artifacts that they do not the origin of, 

they compare them to known libraries of objects we have traced to known points in time and space.

There are many objects in front of you : a lion statuette, a toy shaped like a cat, a rattle for kids and our object.

Grab the lion statuette and observe it.

By comparing it to our object, our first intuition could be that our object is in fact a statuette as well.

Now select the cat toy.

Considering the shape and size of our object, a toy for children is another usage we can think of.

Grab our pig-shaped object and shake it.

We notice that there is something inside that makes a sound, so we can confirm that it's not a simple statuette.

Finally, grab the rattle for children and shake it.

Like our object, this rattle has something colliding inside and making a sound.

Going back to the time of the Ancient Greece, we can imagine that this object could have been used as a rattle.

However, even after determining with relative certainty where, when and how the rattle was made, we will always lack information about it.

Indeed, an object possesses a contextual usage that is assigned to it by the culture of the people who made it.






Select each of the objects to display information about their origin and their closeness to the rattle. < wait >

Now that you have seen all of these artifacts, select the one closest in origin to the rattle and place it next to it. < wait >

This is not the right artifact, try another one. < wait >

Indeed, <????????????????????????????????>.



Take this stone for example. A mere piece of rock. For our ancestors, however, it was the critical tool that helped humans tame fire. < wait >







 the rattle even comes from ancient Greece, and was made around 300BC ?